Non reference material changes (#110)
HL7/fhir-shorthand: input/pagecontent/index.md

<img src="FHIR-Shorthand-Logo.png" alt="FHIR Shorthand Logo" width="300px" style="float:none; margin: 0px 0px 0px 0px;" />

### HL7 Mixed Normative/Trial Use Ballot

FHIR Shorthand is a domain-specific language for defining FHIR artifacts involved in creation of FHIR Implementation Guides (IG). The goal of FSH is to allow IG creators to more directly express their intent with fewer concerns about underlying FHIR mechanics, and efficiently produce high-quality FHIR IGs.

> Conceived in September 2019 and initially released in February 2020, FHIR Shorthand (FSH) has been rapidly adopted by the FHIR community. The [FSH Finder](https://fshschool.org/fsh-finder/) tool reports well over 100 projects using FSH, and [npm-stat](https://npm-stat.com/charts.html?package=fsh-sushi&from=2020-02-12&to=2021-07-12) shows that the *fsh-sushi* [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) package has had over 45,000 downloads as of July 2021. The [#shorthand channel on chat.fhir.org](https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/215610-shorthand) has 270 subscribers and participation is very active. FSH and related tools have been tested at three HL7 Connectathons. Several significant tools for processing FSH have been developed, including [SUSHI](https://fshschool.org/docs/sushi/), a reference implementation for transforming FSH into FHIR artifacts, and [GoFSH](https://fshschool.org/docs/gofsh/), a tool for transforming FHIR artifacts to FSH. Using these tools, FSH can be losslessly round-tripped to FHIR JSON and back. FSH and SUSHI have been integrated with the [HL7 FHIR Implementation Guide Publishing tool](https://confluence.hl7.org/display/FHIR/IG+Publisher+Documentation), allowing seamless processing from FSH to a complete IG.

Reviewer: > Conceived in September 2019 and initially released in February 2020

I get what you're trying to say, but I don't think FHIR Shorthand was "released" in Feb 2020...  According to the [version history](http://hl7.org/fhir/uv/shorthand/history.html), the very _first_ ballot was released March 31, 2020.  This might be a little more accurate:

> Conceived in September 2019 and initially implemented via alpha software in February 2020

or something like that?

Author: Might not be so inaccurate if you think about the IG approval and first version of the IG being published on build.fhir.org, around that time. I don't know exactly, though, so the March date is safer.

Author: Fixed.

FSH was approved as a Standard for Trial Use (STU 1) in May 2020. In the ensuing period, vigorous activity around FSH has driven improvements, new features, and rapid maturation of FSH and related tools. As a result, the FSH specification is now being offered for a mixed normative/trial use ballot. The majority of language features of FSH are proposed as normative, including some post-STU 1 features that have benefited from significant user testing. Certain new language features, such as defining logical models, are proposed as Trial Use. Trial use features are clearly marked in the [language specification](reference.html) with the {%include tu.html%} symbol.

> Designation as a normative standard does not mean that the FSH language will not continue to evolve, only that any future changes must be compatible with the normative portions of the specification.

Reviewer: Try to avoid the double "not":
```suggestion
Designation as a normative standard does not mean that the FSH language will cease to evolve, only that any future changes must be compatible with the normative portions of the specification.
```

#### Motivations for FHIR Shorthand

> FSH was created in response to the need in the FHIR community for scalable, fast, user-friendly tools for IG creation and maintenance. Experience has shown that profiling projects can be difficult and slow, and the resulting IG quality inconsistent. Profiling projects often go through many iterations. As such, an agile approach to refactoring and revision is invaluable.

Reviewer: There is a lot of passive voice in the above paragraph.  Consider rewording to use active voice, putting the author in the center.  Perhaps something like:
```suggestion
FSH was created in response to the need in the FHIR community for scalable, fast, user-friendly tools for IG creation and maintenance. IG authors often struggle to implement profiling projects with efficiency, consistency, and quality. Project teams iterate over the formal definitions and examples many times during the IG development process. As such, an agile approach to refactoring and revision is invaluable.
```

### Relationships to Other Standards, Tools, and Guidelines

There are several existing methods for IG creation. Each of these methods have certain advantages as well as drawbacks:

1. Hand-editing FHIR conformance artifacts such as StructureDefinition and ValueSet resources gives authors full control over every aspect of the resulting FHIR profiles and definitions, but is unwieldy and prone to errors, and suitable only for FHIR experts.
1. The [Excel spreadsheet method](https://confluence.hl7.org/display/FHIR/FHIR+Spreadsheet+Profile+Authoring) has existed since before FHIR 1.0 and has been used to produce sophisticated IGs such as [US Core](https://github.com/HL7/US-Core-R4). A downside is that version management is difficult; either the files are saved in binary form (.xslx) or as XML files, with the content mixed with formatting directives. According to [HL7 Confluence](https://confluence.hl7.org/display/FHIR/FHIR+Spreadsheet+Authoring), the spreadsheet method "is expected to be a near term solution with more sophisticated (and user-friendly) tooling currently under development," implying eventual deprecation of this approach.

> 1. [Simplifier/Forge](https://fire.ly/products/simplifier-net/) and [Trifolia-on-FHIR](https://trifolia-fhir.lantanagroup.com) provide graphical and form-based interfaces that help guide users through common profiling tasks. The upside is that the tools provide guidance to authors, while the potential downside is the need to navigate through many screens, and difficulty making cross-cutting changes. Trifolia is fully browser-based, with no software to install locally. Both are commercially-supported products.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Simplifier/Forge](https://fire.ly/products/simplifier-net/) and [Trifolia-on-FHIR](https://trifolia-fhir.lantanagroup.com) provide graphical and form-based interfaces that help guide users through common profiling tasks. While some authors may appreciate the guided approach, others may feel hampered by graphical navigation or experience difficulty making cross-cutting changes. Trifolia is fully browser-based, with no software to install locally. Both are commercially-supported products.
```

> As the only *language* designed for profiling and IG creation, FSH is unique among these methods. It provides a fast, scalable, and user-friendly path to IG creation and maintenance. Because it is text-based, FSH brings a degree of editing agility not found in graphical tools (such as cutting and pasting, global search and replace, spell checking, etc.) Because it is a HL7 FHIR standard, tooling can be built around FSH with confidence in its stability and continuity.

Reviewer: There is a lot of redundancy (and even blatant duplication) between this paragraph and the last paragraph in the preceding section.  I expect this may not be intentional.

Author: Tried to fix this up with your comments included.

1. [SUSHI User Guide](https://fshschool.org/docs/sushi/) -- SUSHI ("SUSHI Unshortens ShortHand Inputs") is a reference implementation of an interpreter/compiler for FHIR Shorthand. SUSHI produces [Health Level Seven (HL7®) Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR®)](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/R4/overview.html) profiles, extensions, and other artifacts needed to create FHIR Implementation Guides (IG).
1. [GoFSH User Guide](https://fshschool.org/docs/gofsh/) -- GoFSH is a tool that turns FHIR artifacts into FSH. Using GoFSH, existing FHIR artifacts or complete Implementation Guides can be transformed into FSH, automatically.
1. [FHIR Shorthand Tutorials](https://fshschool.org/docs/tutorials/) -- A step-by-step hands-on introduction to producing an Implementation Guide (IG) with FHIR Shorthand and SUSHI.
1. [FSH Online](https://fshschool.org/FSHOnline/#/) -- A coding playground for FSH, an online environment that allows you to write FSH and convert it to FHIR artifacts, convert FHIR artifacts to FSH, access examples, and share FSH code with others.
1. [FSH Finder](https://fshschool.org/fsh-finder/) -- A list of public GitHub repositories that contain FSH code, refreshed daily.

> Note that the [Language Reference](reference.html) is the formal specification, and if there is any conflict between that and any other written or programmatic materials, the former is considered the source of truth.

Reviewer: Two questions for your consideration:

1. Should the ANLTR grammar perhaps be its own section in the documentation?
2. (Related to the first question) Should the ANTLR grammar be a formal part of the specification?  Or should we consider it as "informative" since it's actually an implementation of what is defined in the formal spec?  Someone could implement FSH without it (or using a non-ANTLR grammar representation).

Author: That's interesting idea. Maybe it is even should be considered part of SUSHI. Let's leave it for now, and make a decision on the next round of changes.
